John Jay Harper is a camera shy mystic
who has put the big picture together in uncanny ways.
With a career in education
grounded in the hard sciences and psychology,
he had a life altering event
that challenged him to rethink the nature of reality.
For the past 10 years, he's been lecturing and writing
about his discoveries and revelations
including what lies ahead for the earth.
You were a former engineer
and research scientist with the Department of Defense,
that's a pretty left brain endeavor.
How did you end up writing a book
called Tranceformers, T-R-A-N-C-E
Shamans of the 21st century?
That's right.
Yeah, what was the link?
What happened in your life that created this leap?
I woke one morning at 4 AM in June of 1988
and standing in front me was a deceased friend
colleauge who was a physicist
and he had died six months prior
and shook my left brain to the ground.
No, not just a colleague,
he was a really close friend of yours too, wasn't he?
Yes, his name was George Vegay.
He was born in Plaquemine, Louisiana.
He and I had served in the US Army together
during the Vietnam time.
Although, we bought did not go to Vietnam
and went to Europe.
But back then, it was a pretty stressful activity
anyway to be in Southern Germany
and preparing for the cold war
because we were on the Czechoslovakian border.
And, so we had some very good times
and some very intense times
but overall we served our years together
then came back and went to college
at the University of Alabama
where he studied physics
and I began as electronics engineer.
And you also studied physics, by the way,
as you have grounding in physics.
I’m a generalist in the sciences,
I have a love for them just intuitively.
As a child, my teacher would ask me,
"John, what do you wanna be when you grow up?"
And I said, "A rocket scientist."
Uninterestingly enough, I ended up working
in the Marshall Space Flight Center Area
of Huntsville, Alabama
during the Wernher von Braun years.
And so I've been on the fringe of that.
Connie, actually my wife,
served in many different capacities as secretary,
somebody's very senior people
and actually had seen some of the astronauts
very up close at times.
So you reach that dream and then,
so here is your deceased friend
standing at the end of your bed
at four o'clock in the morning,
okay, so what happened after that?
Initially, I thought it was a lucid dream.
I was starting to kinda shake the cobwebs out of my mind
but I realize that it was a projection of some sort,
it was an image that was alive, that was vibrant.
It was shimmering and yet it was solid.
There was a very holographic whole image picture to it.
Then I looked at his face
and I saw him smile at me.
And we made eye contact
and there was like a telepathic feeling,
more than just thoughts,
there was energy being transferred between us.
And I,
I've never been to same since.
So with that information, did he
attempt to communicate anything specific to you
or did his mere presence catapult you on to
a very deep and long line of inquiry?
Two things happened to me from that experience.
One, I saw him in a very comical way of sorts,
he had a beachcomber hat on
in a Hawaiian luau shirt.
Now we had been together in the south,
so that wasn't too uncommon, I guess, I mean,
you dress a lot lighter in the Southeastern
US, Florida, Georgia, Alabama
and he was from Louisiana.
But he had metal beer cans in the hatband
of his beachcomber hat.
I've seen that artwork before.
Yeah.
And so, to myself, I got kind of it in a way I was shocked,
but there's also a comical edge to it.
But then about a year later,
when I started really reflect,
'cause it consumed me everyday from that point on,
I kept thinking, what in the world has happened to me?
And how could this be possible?
You know, I'm a scientist of sort
but I'm also a psychologist of sorts.
I've studied both of these disciplines at great length.
And what I realized was
that when I was in the funeral home in Huntsville, Alabama
in November of 1987,
I walked up to the front of the funeral home
and I looked down in the casket
and I said into my mind
'cause there's a lot people present, but in my mind,
I looked at George and I said,
"George, a joke is a joke, let's go get a beer."
So I guess he must have shown up
ready to get a beer with you.
What I realized, Regina, was
about a year later,
that he had read my mind
that he was not deceased,
and that that was the confirmation that I needed
to go forward and research the phenomenon
of nearr death experience,
mysticism and shamanism,
so that was the catalyst.
I realized it was not a joke,
it was not an illusion,
it was a communication from a person
that supposedly was dead.
So where did that take you in your research?
On near death experience and
well, afterlife experience?
The first thing I did was I became a voracious reader
of everything metaphysical.
I had never picked up a metaphysical book in my life.
Textbooks, electronics, physics,
biology, chemistry.
Sure, but nothing about metaphysics.
So I read everything that was there
and it wasn't too much back,
this is late 1980's when I began.
Doctor Kenneth Ring at the University of Connecticut
had his book out.
Had Doctor Moody done his work yet?
Yes, 1976, Life After Life.
Absolutely, I read those classics.
Then they started to,
there was an explosion of books on this topic
about that time, late 80's, early 90's.
And movies either.
Yes, even movies, Phyllis Atwater
comes to mind real quick in her books.
So I read everything I could
then I started integrating it slowly
almost like an algorithm like a computer scientist would.
Well, this fits here
slot A fits in slot B,
in tab C, you fold over before you can see D, you know.
And so I started using the abilities that I have innately
as someone who can think complexly
and put very complex puzzles together.
I used that knowledge to now come to
relative conclusions about life, death, and rebirth.
And you were talking a little bit ago
about the experience of seeing an actual body
standing before you,
now, you went further into that study
and what did you discover about what that body you saw
that day with your friends
standing at the end of your bed,
what conclusions have you come to us to what that is?
The appearance of his skin as what
shocked me the most
because he looked like an oriental ice sculpture,
he had the clothing on
but he was crystal clear in a sense.
And I came to a statement
from a shaman,
Painted Arrow I believe is his name.
He talks about how we come from a place of ice
and I realized that he must have been talking
about the vacuum of space, the zero point field in physics
because in physics, we're both inside and outside the field
all the time.
We're kind of dead center in it.
And the only thing that keeps us from feeling that
absolute zero degrees is the biosphere.
If for something were to happen to this earth's environment
for example, a new Ice Age would be like a minimal
example of what I'm talking about
but for example, something very cataclysmic happened
to this planet, say it tilted of its axis,
you would change all the temperature and weather
and everything.
Many sections would have come inhabitable
because it would turn to ice.
Why does it turn to ice?
It's because it loses a core solid radiation
and it becomes really going into a Dark Age
as we go in that sense.
So what happens when the human crosses over
and leaves physical form?
From what I can understand,
based on what I experienced
and what I have been told by people who have died
and had seen the light in their body
transfer over into their new body,
what we call the ethiric or spiritual body,
DNA is immortal.
DNA is a liquid crystal
and it just crystallizes.
When we die, it comes, the light and energy that we are,
the consciousness that we are,
the feelings that are,
download into the next body and life goes on.
So is it an essence carried forth into this,
for another term, higher self hyperspatial counterpart,
whatever that we chose to call the part that continues,
that where our essence that continues after physical form,
this physical form has gone.
That, you're saying, in a liquid crystalline form
continues to carry the DNA imprint?
Yes.
The DNA is very volatile as anyone that will
share the research with you.
It's extremely volatile substance, you might say,
that changes dramatically
but that's what gives us our aliveness
the fact that as Doctor Bruce Lipton would say to us--
Yes, we love him.
Yeah, we all do,
he's a teddy bear.
And what we could learn from Doctor Lipton's work
is that we are the environment,
right?
Our skin is the extension of all our DNA cells
just on the surface.
These cell membrane were made of 50 trillion plus cells.
Well, if you were to project that from the microscopic
to the macroscopic,
then our skin is the cell membrane
of those 50 trillion cells
so, we're here all the time.
I mean, we're plugged in to the environment
each and every second.
And that's what we respond to,
the energetic shifts, moods, thoughts
that we picked up on
has become more sensitive, all right?
Mediums or insensitives are sensitive
because they're reading that energy field
(mumbles).
So would it be fair to say then
that this liquid crystalline DNA that is, in essence,
captured and held within the essence
might be part of that 95% junk DNA they keep talking about?
Absolutely.
Can you comment on that a little a bit
because I just find it hysterical that we would
had such a heinous error in our evolution
that we have 95% junk DNA.
The environment doesn't make mistakes,
it just responds to energetic shifts.
So what that is all about as the junk DNA
is no longer needed to make the fish in us,
the fox in us, the bear in us.
But what is it actually performing?
It is a memory.
It's a solid state crystalline memory
of the entire evolutionary process on this planet
since its inception.
And all of that could be used again,
should there be a crises of,
I can't comprehend it but if it where to happen,
our DNA will just begin again in a new form
and try to raise consciousness
as it has now with our body, our human body.
And we are going through this transformation
as a species.
It's appearing more and more people are lighting up.
Wisdom is becoming a major commodity.
Wired Magazine said, wisdom is the new commodity
beyond materialism and cash starting now.
Amen.
So what is driving this transformation
on an energetic level from what's your understanding?
Physics would tell us today
that energy and matter
actually are superseded by information.
Mind, consciousness,
information is what is the bedrock of material science.
Information is the key
'cause that is what lives forever, that is immortal.
Well, you call it the mind of God,
but it depends on which angle you wanna take.
I'm comfortable with all these terms now.
I don't see any difference
between spirit in science, religion and science.
They're all one truth
but facing a different direction,
they're two sides of the one coin.
You also have had some insights as to
some of what might be coming up in the future,
some of the possibilities for what we may be facing,
it seems to me that humankind is also feeling this pressure
that things are changing very rapidly,
either as a sense of unease
and that we don't know how this is all going to pan out.
Do you feel comfortable sharing what kind of information
you've gotten as to what our future might look like?
And I'm going to tie this back in with DNA in a bit.
And first of all,
do you feel comfortable sharing it?
And secondly, where did this come from,
the information come from?
I feel comfortable in the sense
that I believe what I'm telling you is the truth.
But we all must reflect upon what that might mean
for each individual where they might live geographically,
might factor into their medium environment
where they're living in clear and clean water and etcetera
'cause I think this is tied into the the earth changes idea.
The areas that are polluted the most have to be corrected,
they will self-correct,
they are self-corrected.
The oceans were extremely toxic in places.
The planet is extremely toxic in places.
So those imbalances are part of what people are sensing,
there is a need to change
and we don't know exactly how to do it.
A lot of these as problems are what Peter Russell
would say are, soul sized problems.
Right.
Right?
And they are.
Now, if the soul is,
might say say pattern information,
then we're sensing the entire planet Gaia
as a living being that's in trouble and crying out.
And we're trying to put those in,
we're trying to English Gaia's mind.
And so we stumble and we stutter
but we feel uneasy
something's going to happen to self-correct the planet.
Part of that then
given that is the preface to what I'm gonna share,
let's go forward into one vision that I had
and it's very timely that I share it at this point.
Mount Rainier, Washington which on a good day
is right up that window--
That's right.
And I, as a young boy as I was sharing with you,
used to travel up and down these roads here
by lake Washington.
And even up go fishing at Mount Rainier
up in Carbonado and places like that.
In June 1994,
I was traveling in the Midwest to Kirksville, Missouri
to interview for a job
as a director of our counseling program.
I just retired two years prior from the Navy
which I was, my last job was not as an engineer,
it was as a mental health counselor
and program director of that type of activity.
And I just done a years
of vice principal of my old high school
and I decided,
well, I'm gonna go jump back in the mainstream
I'm retired a little early now,
I need to go back to work
so I played as the vice principal of the high school
until the kids ran me out.
They were wonderful but it wasn’t my calling.
And so I was in Kirksville, Missouri with my wife, Connie.
And we were at a days in in Kirksville, Missouri
and at 4 AM again in the morning--
It's a powerful time of the day.
The crack of dawn when the shaman would say
the world's part, you need to walk between them--
That's right.
So, what happened to me
at 4 AM I had a panoramic three-dimensional
full colored vision of Mount Rainier erupting.
It was, I felt it,
I sensed it,
I was startled by it
and I obviously couldn't go back to sleep
after I had that vision.
So any way, I declined the job
offered in Kirksville at the medical clinic,
came back home to Silverdale, Washington
which is across a Puget Sound from Seattle
and I told my wife we're moving.
I think,
it might have been a little erratic behavior in my part
but I said, if that mountain is gonna blow
as I saw it do,
I also sense that it would be
because of a massive earthquake
that struck this region
of the Coast of Washington and Oregon
that a tsunami,
a tremendous tsunami would be generated
and that earthquake would be in
a 8.5, to 9.0 range.
These types of information are hard to
put into words because there's so many variables
so I don't want anyone to change their residence
because John Jay Harper shared something, okay?
However, do I believe it's true?
Yes.
Do I think it will manifest pretty soon?
Yes, I do.
I've talked with others who have had the same vision,
who I trust and respect for not being sensationalist.
So what are you looking at
as the underlying cause of this when you say
this is all linked to consciousness
and the earth itself trying to go through its corrections,
what would this event be inspired by or relating to?
What I've decided and have confirmed
through ancient texts and scripture
and different things especially in the Vedic traditions.
The ancient saw this planet as a spec in space
in a solar system that was a spec in space
that was connected top the center of the milky way galaxy
very much the way John Major Jenkins sees it.
And in fact,
we've also spoken to him about that.
Very good.
He wrote the one of the appendices in my book.
Right.
I think on how to connect it directly
to our discussion today
is to say that magnetism itself,
the largest source of magnetism as the ancients claimed
is in what we would call that black hole
at the center of the milky way galaxy.
Now, I've even had some near death experiencers
share with me that they traveled through
that black hole and beyond.
Others, to get to one point
of your earlier question about pyramids
specially the three pyramids at Giza
that Robert Bauval, Graham Hancock and others,
Adrian Gilbert would be another one that comes to mind,
have confirmed to relative satisfaction.
They talked about the Orion constellation
as being important to our future.
I have uncovered, rediscovered
from my own studies and talking with people
who had near death experiences,
some of them actually went to the Orion constellation
and had their spiritual experiences
with such figures as Mother Mary,
as Jesus.
They were not told that these were those figures
but they, when they came back they said,
from our religious icons and images and teachings,
that's who they would relate to the best, okay?
To be clear about that.
This is not a religious message.
Right.
Okay.
It's a science's soul message.
So time, yes,
go ahead, continue, yes.
What they shared with me,
on several occasions and from several sources
and this is why it's important to me,
the sources keep coming up now
in the last two or three years,
just more and more, some of them call me,
email me,
somehow, I get a hold on me and say
that's the same thing you've said
on such and such of program many years ago,
eight years ago, 10 years ago.
I've been talking about this now since 1994
actually on radio to a free television spots.
The Orion constellation evidently
from what I can determine
has our future,
or how do you say this,
it has our body double living there now.
And that when we talk about our higher self,
we're interfacing our DNA from this body
into that another light body,
but that light body is really resonant
in the Orion constellation.
And this is why the Egyptians,
and the Mayans,
and all the ancient civilizations paints.
They're oriented,
their observatories, everything toward the Orion, yes.
Exactly, it's purposeful behavior.
It's plain as anything once you break the codes down
and look at it objectively without any agenda.
Okay.
We could go so many directions at this moment.
I would like to tie this now back in.
So you have Rainier,
you have our DNA.
Okay.
Yes.
And our DNA, our collective DNA consciousness
is affecting the severity, potential severity
of the various events that may be occurring
in the future as well from what I'm understanding.
Correct.
And let me make two points.
One, the reason I think I have that particular
Mount Rainier vision of catastrophe
is because this may sound strange but I believe it,
I grew up at the base of that mountain.
My parents and I, and my two brothers and sisters
used to plant a huge vegetable garden
in that mountain ash.
We used to plant all of our crops every spring.
We ate that food that came from that land,
year after year as a child, I believe that that literally
attuned me to that mountain.
Yes, that makes total sense.
And I was born here.
I was born right here in Seattle at Providence Hospital.
So how does,
through the food chain, through your parents,
through this kind of very earthly type of
influence on your body structure
and your development as well
that tied you into being able
to in essence, magnetize to that information?
Yes, to resonate with it.
Be a resonate or attuned through it,
through magnetic field, yes.
So how does our,
I've read that you discussed this,
how does our collective DNA
potentially affect the severity
of some of the up coming earth change?
And if you care to comment on any of the others
you've seen as well, that would be fine as well.
Okay.
If we understand that DNA is immortal,
another word, it's a liquid crystal
that cannot be destroyed.
It can be damaged but it can heal itself.
It's self-healing, self-replicating, okay?
So if we realize that the air that we breath,
the water that we drink,
food that we eat
are all DNA related elements.
Everything alive is made from one DNA molecule.
There's 20 amino acids,
three configuration of those 20 amino acids
is what builds the proteins
that structures of the physical body as Doctor Lipton
does an excellent job of summarizing for us.
And if we realize that the environment
is no further away than our fingertips,
on the surface of our skin
and we're sitting in a huge electromagnetic field of energy
that is also resonating with the energy
at the core of the earth
and to the outer extremes of the atmosphere
and beyond,
resonant with the sun, other planets
and you have astrology that talk about that relationship.
All of its link to the center alignment
of the milky way galaxy with the sun and our planets,
and our earth on or about 2012.
That's a mathematical fact.
So what it your perception of 2012?
we've talked to Bruce James
and we talked to Walter Cruttenden, The Great Year.
Walter's in my book,
I got that quote from him.
And what is your take on it
from a shamanic transformational perspective?
I think what we're seeing is something like
Deshardane, the priest Tahao Deshardane
wrote about the new sphere,
the tightening, ever tightening link of each other
in consciousness in the economy
together into one global civilization.
That's almost a bad word because
people link it with new world order.
Well, there is going to be a new world order
but it may no be anything like others have written about.
It's going to be one of increasing sensitivity
to each other to the environment,
animals, plants,
that type of thing.
It's going to be so intense of an experience
with the environment that if we try to harm each other
or a plant, or an animal
we will feel it immediately.
That's the type of telepathic feeling sense
that we are heading to in my opinion.
So do you think that the center
of the milky way event centered around 2012
is also having to do with the increase
in the changes in the earth's activity?
Yes, what we're saying is a resonant length
like two magnets beings held together,
very powerful magnets.
So you got the earth here, the sun
and then you've got the milky way
maybe in the background here
and this alignment process is taking place
because we're getting in direct alignment
with the center core of the milky way.
And so, that is like any small magnet
would respond to a huge magnet.
The earth is changing,
the shift of the ages is about a magnetic pull shift
towards a more perfected alignment
with the core of the milky way
that brings good and bad.
If you're sitting on a mountain that's gonna detonate,
that's bad.
But if you're waiting for the weather to get better,
it's going to.
Right now, we're in the down side
but eventually, another decade or so,
15 years, 20 years from now,
we'll come out of this.
But the severity that you preferred to
is very, very much on my mind.
Because if we keep doing the same old thing
and think we're gonna get a different result,
that's the definition of mental illness
from where I come from.
It surely is.
So this is really getting into care for our host,
care for the earth.
Yes.
Really?
Are you seeing that at the core of what has to be
a priority, a number one priority perhaps at this time?
Environment is number one,
Gaia is number one.
If we don't respect our mothers,
she's not gonna respect us.
She doesn't really need us,
she can grow a new form
and represent her consciousness through another
three dimensional image than the human.
So what other kinds of information?
I know you're certainly well connected within this field.
What other kind of information are you getting regarding
maybe perhaps extending into the human realm of
how this consciousness is going to be able surface through
some of the darker
types of consciousness that are existing right now
that are more centered in greed and fear?
How do you see that shift?
It's gonna be painful for them.
Very painful.
Because if you and I for example come across,
let say an impasse of a block that that's strong,
in my opinion, I know what I would do.
I would turn around
and just slowly walk away from it.
I mean in other words, someone tells me,
"John, I will take away all your money away from you."
Well, that's gonna hurt but that's okay.
"John, I'm gonna do this or that against you, whatever."
Unless it's something physical against me and my family,
I've got three kids, and eight grandchildren
so I'm pretty protective papa.
But other than, that talk a severe situation,
it doesn't matter, my home, my things, you know,
that's what gonna shift around I believe
because when the economy's changed
and if you're not willing to change with the economy,
your source of income might go away
which means your taxes are no longer being
paid into the US treasury in our country, for example.
And therefore there's less resource.
Less resource, they have to budget cut
and find how to spend the money they do have.
And so social security
and other school or medical or secondary things,
taking care with the elderly,
Maybe that will become less of our priority.
I'm not saying that it will,
I'm just saying, if you got X dollar
and you got Y problems,
something's got to give.
if you're gonna balance budget, right?
Just like in our home budget.
So that is a big change.
I think it's economic where resources go.
And for example , if I may go on for one second here,
when I look at my, say, that medicine cabinet in my home
or underneath my sink,
or in my two car garage,
and I still look at toxic chemicals
stack like I'm preparing for a war
with a third world country that's unarmed,
I get some guilt
because I'm still part of the problem
and not part of the solution.
And for years, I've been trying to be part of the solution.
So I realized how difficult,
what I'm saying here is to digest and apply.
Then in another level,
resources never die.
they just change hands.
Up to a point.
Then what?
Where we're going a long term
is we will become very telepathic.
Okay, what does that mean?
It means you can't lie to me and I can't lie to you.
Number one, you'll know
who I am through the sermon anyway, I think.
But really, when you hear my thoughts in you head
and after disturbing thoughts,
you remove your self from my presence, right?
Okay.
Number two, we're going to see a tremendous change in
the way we look at our lives in terms of creativity.
We are here to be the solution
to the problems we've already created
and then go beyond that to live in
what I call a restored Garden of Eden.
That's the long term vision that I have
and that's been shared with me
by many near death experiencers,
and I believe of their visions.
I can go back in the ancient scriptures like the Vedas.
In my book I quote a section there
that talks about when man could fly through the air,
when plants and animals lived in harmony,
when the water was crystalline clear,
when everything came out of the ground spontaneously
that we needed in terms of vegetables.
Everyone was a vegetarian
during those golden ages, no doubt about it,
I'm not a vegetarian
but I know that that's where I'm gonna have to go
maybe next lifetime.
But you know, in a nutshell,
without getting in too much depth there,
that's the overview that I see.
So you're seeing passing through
some challenging times
and this is not just for Mount Rainier but globally.
Yes, absolutely.
It's a global earth-based shift of energy,
resources, consciousness,
information exchange, everything.
And like you said before,
a quote from Wired Magazine, wisdom.
Yes, wisdom is going to be the commodity most in--
Demand, so it's a needed most?
Yeah, it's just--
Top priority?
Yes, top, top of the list.
Okay, now
the subject of DNA, I've kind of,
because it's coming up in so many different ways,
I wanted to know if you have any information
as to how the ancients may have depicted
or understood our DNA,
and our DNA in linking with other constellations,
the cosmos etcetera because
in some of the hieroglyphs it's said that
some of those little squiggles we see and such
are actually DNA.
Yes, they are.
I believe they are.
So can you talk about some of that
in perhaps even through Egyptology or--
Well, DNA has been,
I believe the most understudied and misunderstood
when it was studied
discipline in science.
We're headed towards nanotechnology
and interphase of DNA with biochips etcetera.
That's an interesting thing to do but if
you're only playing with fire,
you don't know what you're
getting yourself into,
you could create as that
one neardeath experiencer told me,
Milton Thomas Benedict, he said,
we're about already to create
the next Tower of Babel
then don't know it.
You can go so far and then
nature through DNA self-corrects
and the whiplash may not be what
you wanna experience.
For example, a bad cow disease, bird flu.
Now, on the surface they seem disconnected
but not if you realize that DNA is in every air molecule,
every water molecule
connected them to a huge field of energy
and matter and information that is the biosphere itself.
In other words, this entire,
everything that we see around us here is DNA
inside and out.
We're seeing through the eyes of DNA.
I'm speaking to you with the voice of DNA.
Jeremy Narby, Doctor Jeremy Narby, an anthropologist
at Stanford University, where he got his PhD.
and then I believe he moved to Switzerland.
He wrote a book called the Cosmic Serpent,
DNA and The Origins of Knowledge.
And to answer your question,
this would be the best way I could share
is through his research and conclusions.
Jeremy Narby went to the Amazon,
lived for a couple of years.
This was probably 15 or 20 years ago
while he was getting his PhD at Stanford University,
in Palo Alto, California.
When he went to live with the shamans,
he was given the opportunity
to take part in the Ayahuasca ceremonies
known as the vine of the soul
or the rope to the milky way,
there's just a myriad number of ways to describe
the Ayahuasca experience.
But in short,
Doctor Narby discovered
from taking the compound himself
that when he saw hallucination in front of him,
it was an animal or plant talking to him.
And over several ceremonies and talking with the shamans,
he came to believe in their perspective
which was that that was DNA talking to you.
It wasn't hallucination.
It wasn't a distortion brought on by the drug.
You are getting an opportunity to come back and reflect
that you're surrounded by living beings all the time,
you just can't see them.
Your third eye is not open in other words.
This is what the ancients were doing in my opinion,
the Mayans, and the priests, shamans in Egypt.
They were going through ceremonies
to reconnect with the life around them,
to understand the diseases that may be coming their way,
the plagues,
the crops, how the crops would do.
They were interfacing with the animals, plants
and life forms
that their civilization depended on.
And when they could acquire that knowledge,
they thrived in the golden civilizations.
When they forgot that knowledge
and the environment degraded to the point,
they forgot even about the ceremonies
that would allow them to interface with nature,
they began to die off.
And so we, in effect, as Walter Cruttenden
and also John Major Jenkins
speaking about this cycles, these Golden Ages
is not as though we've come from slime,
as if though we evolve and we devolve,
and we evolve and we devolve.
And so where are we right now in your,
where are you seeing the point right now?
We're on the upward slope of the very steep mountain
but we're on the right path
because you and I, for one, are sitting here
and sharing this information,
we haven't been replaced by a needle-headed alien
or in the other life form that I can see,
and that we're now getting serious about
sharing this information and doing it from our hearts
not just our heads.
And we're putting this as the top priority in our lives,
aren't we?
Yes, we are.
Okay.
So, I see us at the base of a very big mountain,
but we're starting up to the top.
I'm very optimistic,
doesn’t mean there's a lot of
big things coming like tsunamis,
but that's the secondary aspect,
the natural disasters have always occurred.
This is a very vibrant, dynamic earth that we live on,
it is not stable
for very long anywhere, is it?
I mean, the climate can change in a minute
and go from snow to bright sun,
and etcetera, high temperatures.
So this has always occurred.
I think what we'll do though
when a consciousness becomes more integrated,
we're gonna see the climate stabilize,
we're gonna see plants and animals become more healthy,
and people will just naturally become that way
because they're gonna change their diets.
And if for example, if the beef industry,
we don't want anybody to,
I don't wanna pick on to anybody
but if that were to suddenly shift
and not be too important to us anymore,
then they need to be helped to shift into a new economy.
And if, we could do this gracefully as what I'm saying,
but we resist change.
And so I'm sitting here
trying to be an optimist
at the same time reflecting in all the problems
as well as you are doing.
So in that nutshell, again, that's how I see it.
So you've been doing
a lot of media these days
and what is that you're really hitting on right now?
What's the nearest and dearest to you?
What I want us to all understand
is that we need to let fear
dissolve itself and go forward in faith,
share what we know from the heart,
and link together in meaningful ways
to rebuild a new civilization based on peace,
based on wisdom teachings,
and allow everyone to be themselves just,
if we just not try to manipulate and control
and maneuver,
I think things will work out a lot smoother
than if we try to do otherwise.
To delve deeper into John's work,
pick up a copy of his book,
Tranceformation: Shamans of the 21st Century.
Meanwhile, you can hear him on coast to coast
and other media.
Just check into his website listed on our site.
Until next time.
Thanks for watching.
(calm music)